Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
In this month’s program,
we’ll see how Jehovah shepherds us
through any challenge.
Here are some highlights of what’s ahead.
In the exciting conclusion to Luda’s story,
she must overcome her fears
to make a stand for God’s Kingdom.
Where can we find the strength
to make needed changes?
A highly trained soldier tells us
why he decided to leave the military
after learning the truth.
And our music video
reminds us
that joy and peace are possible now
as we wait for “the real life” to come.
This is the May 2024 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
What do you see
when you look at this picture?
Do you see yourself in it?
You should.
But why?
This picture helps us to visualize
the beautiful description of Jehovah
found at Isaiah 40:11:
“Like a shepherd he will care for his flock.
“With his arm
he will gather together the lambs,
“and in his bosom he will carry them.
He will gently lead
those nursing their young.”
Jehovah bears many titles in the Bible,
but the designation “Shepherd”
is among the most tender.
Like a shepherd,
Jehovah says ‘he will carry
his lambs in his bosom,’
illustrating his tender love and care
for each one of his precious sheep.
Look again at the picture.
Is it hard for you to see yourself as a lamb
nestled in the bosom
of our Shepherd, Jehovah?
We know that many
of you dear brothers and sisters
are coping with very difficult challenges
day after day in this cruel, wicked world.
Such challenges can make it difficult for you
to feel like a lamb,
safe and secure in the bosom of our Shepherd.
Please be assured
that Jehovah is fully aware
of every challenge you face.
Why can you be so sure?
Let’s read what David,
the writer of Psalm 23:4, says:
“Though I walk in the valley of deep shadow,
“I fear no harm, for you are with me;
your rod and your staff reassure me.”
Much like a physical valley
located deep in the shadows
of nearby mountains,
a figurative valley
can be used to describe
a low point in one’s life
—when we’re feeling down,
gloomy, or in a dark place.
When David wrote this psalm,
he was feeling down,
at a low point in his life.
Well, what “valley of deep shadow”
are you currently going through?
Are you feeling overwhelmed with
trying to provide for your family’s needs?
dealing with a serious health issue,
such as cancer?
exhausted because you are caring
for your mate or a parent with dementia?
trying to cope with the death of a loved one?
battling feelings of loneliness,
worthlessness, or anxiety?
or facing persecution?
It’s so difficult to remain positive
when facing the darkest days of our life.
But there is a bright side.
What is that?
Jehovah is aware
of the mountainlike obstacles
that cause you to feel low,
as if you were in a “valley of deep shadow.”
He not only sees your pain,
but he’s ready to come to your rescue,
lift you up with his strong arms,
and embrace you
like that lamb in the picture.
Psalm 23 is one
of the most well-known passages in the Bible
and beautifully describes the loving way
that our Shepherd, Jehovah, leads, protects,
and feeds his precious sheep.
As we consider these three ways
that Jehovah cares for us,
look for the answers
to the following questions:
What does Jehovah do?
How does he do it?
And what do you need to do?
The first way: Our Shepherd leads us.
At Psalm 23:1, the theme of our discussion,
David expressed with full confidence:
“Jehovah is my Shepherd.
I will lack nothing.”
As a young man,
David proved to be a capable shepherd
who tenderly cared for
and protected his entire flock
and cared for the specific needs
of each sheep.
Here in Psalm 23, David portrays himself,
not as a shepherd, but as a humble sheep
under the loving care of Jehovah,
affectionately calling him “my Shepherd.”
During his lifetime,
David experienced many highs and lows,
peaks and valleys, joys and disappointments.
But whatever
“valley of deep shadow” he faced,
David always relied on his Shepherd
to lead him to safety
and provide exactly
what he needed when he needed it.
With complete trust and confidence, he said:
“I will lack nothing.”
No wonder Psalm 23
has been called
“a psalm of assurance or trust.”
What does our Shepherd do?
Verses 2 and 3 answer:
“In grassy pastures he makes me lie down;
“he leads me to well-watered resting-places.
“He refreshes me.
“He leads me in the paths of righteousness
for the sake of his name.”
The Watchtower  once explained:
“David here paints a scene of contentment,
refreshment, and security.”
Jehovah leads us to “grassy pastures”
and “tranquil waters.”
“The Hebrew word rendered ‘pastures’
can mean ‘pleasant place.’”
If we humbly follow our Shepherd,
he will lead us to a “pleasant place”
where we can feel secure
and have peace of mind,
even when we’re going through
a “valley of deep shadow.”
How does Jehovah lead us?
By means of his Word,
he teaches us how to make wise decisions
that lead to “paths of righteousness,”
a life course that is pleasing to him
and brings us happiness.
He sets a course and a pace
that we’re able to follow,
never expecting us
to do more than we’re able.
Jehovah also leads us
by means of undershepherds, the elders,
who tenderly care for us spiritually,
emotionally, and physically
so that we will “lack nothing.”
What do you need to do?
If you’re going
through a “valley of deep shadow,”
search our many publications
for specific Bible principles
and helpful advice that can shed light
on your present circumstances
and provide practical ways
to overcome difficulties
or give you the patience to endure.
Many find encouragement and comfort
watching JW Broadcasting®.
In fact, one sister said:
“JW Broadcasting
has helped me to be more positive . . .
“When I get lonely or discouraged,
“I find an encouraging talk
or [a] Morning Worship program to watch.”
Are you benefiting
from the monthly broadcasts,
videos, and uplifting songs?
The second way: Our Shepherd protects us.
Let’s read the second half of verse 4:
“Your rod and your staff reassure me.”
David used a shepherd’s rod and staff
to illustrate Jehovah’s protective care.
Ancient shepherds used a rod
to protect their sheep from predators
such as lions, bears, wolves, and snakes.
They also used a staff to guide their sheep,
gently nudging them in the right direction.
Interestingly, some staffs had a hook
at the end of the long stick
that helped them as a shepherd
to gently draw back a sheep straying
or nibbling into danger,
guiding them back
to the protection of the flock.
The sheep certainly did not fear
that the shepherd would use his rod
or his staff to beat them.
What does Jehovah do?
Our loving Shepherd stands
ready to use his figurative rod and staff
to warn and protect us
from predators seeking to harm us,
especially from Satan,
who in the Bible is portrayed
as a vicious lion and a cunning serpent.
Jehovah also has appointed
elders in the congregation
to warn and protect us
from harmful influences
and from taking a dangerous path
in this wicked world.
No doubt you’re filled
with heartfelt appreciation
and are comforted
knowing that Jehovah is always on the lookout
to use his figurative rod and staff
to warn and protect us, not to beat us.
If you’ve strayed or nibbled away
from the flock for whatever reason,
please listen to Jehovah
as he speaks to you
through his written Word, the Bible,
and our brotherhood.
Humbly follow the gentle nudging
to lead you back
to the safety of the congregation,
where you’ll enjoy lush “grassy pastures”
and refreshing “well-watered resting-places.”
Elders, you are entrusted
with a privileged but heavy responsibility
to protect Jehovah’s precious sheep,
whom He’s placed under your care.
We take this opportunity
to express our sincere appreciation
for those of you
who use your figurative rod and staff
to protect the sheep,
never making them feel beaten down
but truly loved and appreciated.
How does Jehovah protect us?
He protects us as a group, or flock.
Satan will never succeed
in wiping Jehovah’s sheep from the earth.
Jehovah also protects
each sheep individually.
How?
Most important, he protects us spiritually.
The Draw Close to Jehovah  book explains:
“Our loving God
protects us from spiritual harm
“by equipping us with what we need
in order to endure trials
“and to safeguard our relationship with him.
“Jehovah thus works to preserve our life,
not just for a few short years
but for eternity.”
How reassuring that Jehovah makes sure
that we have everything we need
so that we will, in effect, “lack nothing”!
What do you need to do?
Take full advantage
of the many provisions
Jehovah makes available
to protect us spiritually
—prayer, fellow worshippers,
and timely spiritual food,
which we’ll discuss next.
The third way: Our Shepherd feeds us.
Psalm 23:5, 6 reassures us:
“You prepare a table for me
before my enemies.
“You refresh my head with oil;
my cup is well-filled.
“Surely goodness and loyal love
will pursue me all the days of my life,
and I will dwell in the house of Jehovah
for all my days.”
What does Jehovah do?
David now describes our Shepherd
as a generous host
who spreads before us, his invited guests,
delicious and nutritious food and drink
in great abundance.
How does Jehovah feed us?
Through “the faithful and discreet slave,”
Jehovah gives us timely publications
as well as rich spiritual programs
at our meetings, assemblies,
conventions, JW Broadcasting,
Governing Body updates,
along with encouraging songs and videos,
and so much more.
Truly, the slave is giving us
“food at the proper time”
—what we need when we need it.
We certainly “lack nothing” spiritually.
What do you need to do?
Show your appreciation
for the food the slave provides
by eating it and never being fussy, picky,
or selective in your eating habits.
Remember, the Bible
and Bible-based publications
are ways that Jehovah speaks to us,
in effect, saying:
“This is the way.
Walk in it,” my precious sheep.
As we read the Bible
and meditate on the verses
that touch our heart,
we’ll be better equipped
to correct any faulty thinking
that could lead us
to dark feelings of anxiety,
loneliness, worthlessness,
anger, or resentment.
Like David, be determined
to “dwell in the house of Jehovah
for all [your] days.”
Continue attending our upbuilding meetings,
assemblies, and conventions,
where we receive
spiritual nourishment and protection.
A sister who has traversed
various “valley[s] of deep shadow”
expressed what helps her
to stay focused and to keep on enduring.
She said: “Depressive thoughts
are not trustworthy.
“They are the product of a treacherous heart
“that distorts our thinking abilities.
“But because I trust Jehovah completely,
“each Bible verse proves to be
like a solid stepping stone
that enables me to gradually climb out
of my many valleys of deep shadow.”
Our sister expressed so well
how we feel about our loving Shepherd
who promises to help us successfully navigate
through any “valley of deep shadow.”
Isn’t this a beautiful picture
of a shepherd with his sheep?
It’s adorned
the Governing Body conference room
since the 1970’s.
It’s a visual reminder
of the importance of their work as shepherds.
Brother Lösch, a member
of the Governing Body since 1994,
recently explained
what this inspiring painting
has meant to him throughout the decades.
Enjoy the following video segment.
This painting
in the Governing Body conference room
shows the shepherd and his sheep.
And the shepherd is caring for the sheep,
and they feel, obviously,
comfortable and protected.
And they do that despite,
as you can see in the background,
stormy weather.
But the sheep feel just fine.
In connection
with the application in the Bible,
the Bible shows that Jehovah God
is a shepherd who cares for us as his sheep,
but so is Jesus Christ.
He is called “the fine shepherd.”
And what are shepherds to do?
Well, shepherds lead the sheep,
feed the sheep,
and shepherds protect the sheep.
But then shepherds
also care for injured
or ailing sheep.
The fact is
that all of God’s people are sheep.
And so we have the privilege
to all follow the lead
of Jehovah and Jesus and the elders
and to work together in unity.
At the Governing Body meeting,
we sometimes look at the picture
and we try to apply
what is implied in the painting
to our work with the congregations
and the worldwide flock.
Thank you, Brother Lösch, for sharing
those encouraging comments with us.
How reassuring it is to know
that our loving shepherds
on the Governing Body
take their responsibility to lead, protect,
and feed you, me,
and all of Jehovah’s precious sheep
very seriously!
May we all continue
to humbly and obediently follow their lead
as we follow closely the lead
of our Great Shepherd, Jehovah,
and in the footsteps
of our Fine Shepherd and King, Jesus.
Never forget that Jehovah
is not just our Shepherd,
he is your Shepherd; he is my Shepherd.
With Jehovah, our Shepherd,
leading, protecting, and feeding us,
we can face the future
with complete confidence
and echo the words that David used
to introduce this beautiful
and reassuring psalm
—the words contained at Psalm 23:1:
“Jehovah is my Shepherd.
I will lack nothing.”
One of the many “valley[s] of deep shadow”
that we can pass through is war.
Along with physical and emotional strain,
it can threaten our loyalty to God’s Kingdom.
How can we overcome fear
and stand with Jehovah?
The following dramatization
takes us into the heart of a conflict
and is based on the real-life experiences
of some of our brothers and sisters.
“Though I walk in the valley of deep shadow,
I fear no harm, for you are with me.”
Those words felt new
when the fighting started again.
But the family that took us in
was a gift from Jehovah.
While we waited
for the trains to start running again,
we tried our best to help others.
They’re nearly finished.
I’m going to go help them clean up.
OK.
Luda?
Yakiv.
I know her from school.
This is my brother, Pavlo.
He protects this whole area.
I’m surprised you’re still here.
You too.
Why?
I stayed to help the fight.
Where else would I be?
Oh, no.
I-I just meant . . .
This is our home.
Everybody has to do their part
to support the war.
I’m . . .
You’re what?
She’s a Jehovah.
They don’t care about the country.
Oh, the cowards.
Your people should be shot.
Hey!
Come on, let’s go.
I just froze.
Fear is natural.
We all get afraid.
But let’s look at what Jesus told us.
“However, when they hand you over,
“do not become anxious about how
“or what you are to speak,
for what you are to speak will be given you
in that hour.”
So let’s talk about what you can say.
Because when you have Jehovah’s thoughts
in here,
he will always give you the words
when you need them.
Today is the day we’ll try to leave.
We have brothers and sisters waiting for us.
After all these weeks,
it may finally happen.
Have your tickets and ID ready!
One at a time.
Go ahead;
I’m right behind you.
Leaving the country?
Yes.
Me, my mother, and my grandma are leaving.
We’re giving priority to the weak and sick.
And there’s a lot you can do here.
Don’t you care about your country?
I respect our country,
but I am loyal to God.
I support God’s Kingdom first.
I think we make you stay.
Go back!
Hold on.
God’s Kingdom?
Did you say God’s Kingdom?
My father, he, he was one of you.
I don’t agree with your beliefs.
But I know you’re good people.
So, you and your family, get on the train.
“Do not become anxious . . . ,
for what you are to speak will be given you.”
I didn’t know how Jehovah would do it,
but I put my trust in him.
And he showed me that I have nothing to fear.
Our Shepherd has promised
to give us the right words at the right time.
Inscribe his thoughts on your heart now
before the trial,
and you’ll have nothing to fear.
As Joerg began to study the Bible
with Jehovah’s Witnesses,
God’s thoughts were inscribed on his heart.
He needed to make a choice:
serve in the army or serve God.
How would he find the strength
to completely change his life?
Let’s see.
I was born in northern Germany.
I didn’t have a really good relationship
with my father
because he drank a lot
and very often he was mean to me.
On the other hand,
my mother, really, she was kind and lovely.
And I can tell you,
I loved my mother
from the bottom of my heart.
One day, the doctors diagnosed
that she had cancer,
and only a few days later,
she died and she was gone.
And this was horrible for me, I tell you.
I felt completely empty, no hope,
angry.
I couldn’t understand.
Really, I couldn’t get it
—how God can be so hurtful to others
and take the best of what I had in my life,
just take it away.
I hated everything around me.
I would never trust anyone.
And especially,
I also completely lost trust in God.
And, therefore,
I decided to go to the German Air Force.
It started with basic training.
So the idea is that we have to follow orders.
It doesn’t matter what happens.
So special training
was also hand-to-hand combat.
And this gives you a lot of confidence.
You think nobody can hurt you once again.
You feel very strong.
I remember a situation:
We were outside in the woods,
and this was a part of the survival training.
I felt indestructible
and was very proud of myself.
So a little later on in my military career,
I was working with the missile launch crew.
One day,
I realized
that just with one launch of this missile,
I could be responsible
for killing thousands of people.
When all this came to my mind,
I started to think:
‘Is it possible
that there is a God who exists?
‘And if so,
what would he think about my work
—what I am doing here?’
There was in my family my aunt
who once told me:
“Dieter, if someday you would like
“to know something more about God
or about the Bible,
“you have to contact Jehovah’s Witnesses.
“They know exactly
“what the prophecy is from the Bible,
and this can give you hope.”
And from then on, I studied the Bible
and I also went to the meetings with them.
So at one meeting,
my wife, Elvia, was sitting beside me
and I was sure
I had to make a big change
to be with these people
who love Jehovah God,
since I was still working
for the German Air Force.
I decided officially
to refuse the military service
because my conscience bothered me.
I felt really confident
that this was the right decision to make.
So at that court date
(and this was surprising for me),
they told me that my request
would be rejected.
If I refused
to go on with my military service,
I would be sent to prison.
I really didn’t know what to do,
and then I saw that Jehovah took over.
My site commander told me:
“Do you know what?
“I have a solution for you.
You can appeal the court decision.”
He offered me an office job.
So the only thing I would have to do
was paperwork.
And the shift was eight hours,
but I was finished after two hours
—I was done with this.
For six months
(five days a week, six hours a day)
I was just studying and studying.
I felt
not only that I drew closer to Jehovah,
but I was also convinced now
that in the past,
I was just relying on myself.
I trusted only me.
But now I got the opportunity
to lay everything out, what I needed,
to Jehovah.
Elvia and I,
we got in really deep discussions.
If I was in prison and she was alone,
I was wondering
how she could take care of herself.
If I have to go to prison,
we’d still stick to Jehovah and to his ways.
So as the court date arrived,
I asked Jehovah,
“Please, Jehovah,
give me the strength and also the wisdom
and the right words
to glorify your name.”
After the hearing,
the presiding judge told me,
“When the decision is made,
it will be final.”
So back in my unit,
the next days were horrible.
One day,
my site commander came into my office,
and he had a very, very serious face.
Wow!
I knew what was coming up.
I was seeing myself already behind bars.
Then, surprisingly, he told me:
“Hey, this is sad news for me.
“The decision is made.
“You are free to go,
and I will lose
the best officer that I have.”
And in this moment, wow!
I remember the tears coming out.
I couldn’t hold it back,
and I was so thankful to Jehovah.
And I felt, really,
it was the best decision I made,
to stick to Jehovah and not to man.
So Elvia and I,
we dedicated our lives completely to Jehovah,
and now we’ve had the privilege to serve him
almost 50 years together.
The scripture at Isaiah 40:10, 11
really comes to my mind:
“Jehovah will come with power . . .
Like a shepherd he will care for his flock.”
And certainly he did.
It doesn’t matter
what Satan ever brings to you.
This relying on Jehovah
always leads to success.
As Brother Hoecker
gradually progressed spiritually,
he made decisions to match God’s standards.
He specifically asked Jehovah
for the power to follow through
on his decisions.
And we’re happy that with time
and Jehovah’s help,
he was able to bring his life
in harmony with Jehovah’s standards.
But what if our choice
is not about right or wrong?
What if it’s more about
choosing from many options?
In this episode
of Lessons From The Watchtower,
see how these young people
were able to use Bible principles
when choosing employment.
When I first started having
some health problems,
my biggest concern was my goals.
With health situations,
it’s easy to get overwhelmed.
I’ve had to find a part-time job
that is agreeable to my pioneering schedule
and to my energy levels.
I was offered after high school
the opportunity to attend
a prestigious university for no cost.
But Jehovah invites you to rely on him,
not to rely on yourself.
Growing up,
my family didn’t have a lot materially.
It caused me to have a tendency
to want to rely on myself instead of Jehovah.
I realized that I needed to have
more trust in Jehovah,
and that was going to require
working on my faith.
The Israelites were given
a wonderful provision from Jehovah
when they were hungry and in need of food
—manna—
and they had to show contentment
throughout the whole 40 years
of them being in the wilderness.
It’s not ideal
to have to cut back on things
for financial reasons.
But being OK with it and adapting to it
—that shows Jehovah
that we’re content with what he’s given us,
and it helps us to be able to enjoy life
and enjoy our full-time ministry that way.
I appreciated David’s example
because he stuck to Jehovah
through several trials
and each time he saw Jehovah’s hand.
And I thought,
‘That must have impressed on him
the importance of relying on Jehovah,
‘and it probably helped him
to have faith that Jehovah
was going to be there again the next time.’
We were pioneering in our hometown;
we had everything we needed.
I was set up with a job
where I could work three days a week,
and it was the perfect pioneer job.
But we wanted something more,
so we decided to move
where the need was greater
in the Chinese field.
I decided to find a part-time job
that provided the means necessary
to pay for things like food and clothing.
But, really, it was going to provide me
with an opportunity
to focus on that service to Jehovah.
After some time, I realized
that the job I had originally taken
was not providing what I needed anymore.
A change was necessary.
So another opportunity came up
to pursue higher education.
While I was considering my options,
a friend recommended a job
that required
a little bit of vocational training
but would pay to cover my expenses.
Psalm 23:1
has absolutely been true for us.
There’s never been a moment
when we went hungry.
when we didn’t have what we needed.
And challenges have come up,
but he’s always led us
through those challenges
and helped us to overcome them.
I was able to find a way
to work remotely from home
so that I could control my energy level
and I could control my own schedule.
The ministry has been such a comfort
since as far back as I can remember.
For any trials we face,
just going in service,
we always come home smiling.
For us, it was always,
“If you can do it, do it
because it will make you happy
and will make life more enjoyable.”
Working at the Assembly Hall
is an enormous privilege.
It’s great to work in Jehovah’s organization
—to see how it works, to receive training.
And, at the same time,
it’s an opportunity to meet even more people
who are all putting Jehovah first.
Looking back on it, I realize
that Jehovah gave us
that time to work for him
so that he could show his power to us
in a way that was undeniable.
When this Watchtower  came out, I said,
“Everything is true.”
Yeah, every single principle—
“Taste and see that Jehovah is good,”
and ‘Jehovah is my Shepherd;
I’ll lack nothing’—it’s all true.
My experience in my life
has been a testimony to that.
These young ones
have lives filled with purpose and joy
and are truly “lack[ing] nothing” good.
And did you notice how they worked
in harmony with their prayers?
Brother Lett discussed specific ways
we can work with Jehovah’s hand
in this Morning Worship program.
The theme for this discussion is
“Jehovah’s Hand Is Awe-Inspiring!”
The human hand is an amazing creation.
It enables us to apply the power of our arm
in very dexterous and versatile ways.
We can swing a sledgehammer.
We can thread a tiny sewing needle.
The human hand is far superior
to any animal’s hand.
One advantage only humans have
is an opposing thumb
that can easily touch our four other fingers.
To illustrate the human hand’s superiority,
imagine an ape
(whose hand you see here)
trying to take a pen
and precisely sign his name
or trying to throw a curveball
with a baseball.
But as amazing as the human hand is,
Jehovah’s hand is far more amazing.
In fact, it is awe-inspiring.
But what is Jehovah’s hand?
Well, here’s one definition:
Jehovah’s hand is his ability
to apply the great power of his holy spirit
in various ways.
In fact,
let’s discuss four examples
of Jehovah using his awe-inspiring hand
to apply the great power of his holy spirit.
And then after we discuss each one,
we’ll comment just briefly
on how we can work in harmony
with this specific use of Jehovah’s hand.
Now let’s go to Proverbs 21,
today’s Scripture text.
Let’s read it again
at Proverbs 21:1:
“A king’s heart
“is like streams of water in Jehovah’s hand.
He directs it wherever He pleases.”
Now, what is this telling us?
Well, in order to accomplish his will,
Jehovah can maneuver the heart
of any government official
to do something
or not to do something.
Now, here’s one Bible example:
Persian King Artaxerxes
granted all of Ezra’s requests.
Amazingly, he did this
about going to Jerusalem
and advancing pure worship.
Well, what motivated the king’s heart
to do this?
Ezra knew where the credit belonged.
At Ezra 7:27, he said:
“May Jehovah . . . be praised,
“who put it into the heart of the king
to beautify the house of Jehovah
in Jerusalem!”
Now, that’s just one Bible example
of many that could be discussed.
But now our question is,
How can we work in harmony
with this use of Jehovah’s hand?
Well, for one thing,
we can pray,
if it be Jehovah’s will,
that he maneuver
the hearts of government officials
to make decisions
that will benefit Jehovah’s people.
We can also pray
for Jehovah to move the hearts of officials
to treat our imprisoned brothers kindly.
And that’s in harmony with Hebrews 13:3,
which is a beautiful scripture:
“Keep in mind those in prison,
as though you were imprisoned with them.”
Now, isn’t that interesting?
“Keep in mind those in prison,
as though you were imprisoned with them.”
Now, let’s go to Isaiah 41,
and we’ll get our second example
of how Jehovah can use his hand.
At Isaiah 41:10, the B  part,
Jehovah says:
“I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.”
Then look at verse 13:
“For I, Jehovah your God,
“am grasping your right hand,
“the One saying to you,
‘Do not be afraid.
I will help you.’”
Now, interestingly,
this scripture is not talking
about Jehovah taking his right hand
and grabbing our left hand,
as would be true in walking side by side.
But rather, Jehovah takes his right hand
and grabs our right hand,
as would be true
of Jehovah pulling us up and out of a pit.
So, what do we learn from this?
That Jehovah can rescue us
from any situation,
no matter how hopeless,
how desperate, it might seem.
But now our question is,
How can we work in harmony
with this specific use of Jehovah’s hand?
Well, for one thing,
we can supplicate Jehovah
to rescue us
in times of test, trial, temptation.
And then we can avail ourselves
of the help that comes our way,
in effect,
reaching out with our right hand
and grasping Jehovah’s right hand.
But now, let’s go to Psalm 145
for our third example.
Psalm 145:16
says of Jehovah:
“You open your hand
and satisfy the desire
of every living thing.”
Now, what is this telling us?
Well, Jehovah can use his hand
to express tremendous generosity.
It’s true that this scripture
will be completely fulfilled
in the new world.
But even now,
Jehovah freely uses his hand
to express generosity.
He is the most magnanimous Giver
in the universe
—nothing stingy or tightfisted
about Jehovah.
He gives emotionally,
he gives materially,
and especially spiritually.
The ground we walk on,
the food we eat,
the air we breathe
—it all comes from Jehovah.
That makes me think of the atheist
who arrogantly said:
“I don’t need God.
“I don’t need anybody.
I don’t need anything.”
And then he took a deep breath.
How shortsighted indeed!
But now our question is,
How can we work in harmony
with this use of Jehovah’s hand?
Well, by being generous toward others
—being willing to give unstintingly
of our time, energy, resources.
And think about this:
If we are closefisted with others,
not only are we not imitating
our generous God
as beloved children
but also Jehovah
can’t put anything in our hand.
On the other hand,
if we’re openhanded with others,
now Jehovah can put something in our hand.
Well, let’s identify one more way
Jehovah uses his hand.
Let’s go to Exodus chapter 15, please,
and verse 6, the B  part:
“Your right hand, O Jehovah,
can shatter an enemy.”
What do we learn?
It reminds us of how many times in the past
Jehovah has used his hand
to smash to irreparable pieces his enemies.
And it assures us he will do so
in an even more awe-inspiring way
in the near future.
During the great tribulation,
Jehovah will use his hand
to maneuver many of the wicked
to actually use their physical hands
to slaughter each other.
And then he will use his hand
to wield the forces of nature,
to use the immortal Christ,
the immortal 144,000,
and the mighty angels.
He will use them to sweep away,
sweep out of existence,
the rest of the wicked
along with this entire wicked system.
How can we work in harmony
with this use of Jehovah’s hand?
Well, one way is very important.
We can work hard to help people
take a stand with Jehovah
and learn the truth
so that they don’t have to be removed
by Jehovah’s almighty hand.
And this brings great delight to Jehovah
when we do this
because Jehovah takes no delight
in even “the death of the wicked.”
But what he takes delight in
is that ‘someone wicked
turns back from his way and keeps living.’
Well, we have now discussed four ways
Jehovah can use his awe-inspiring hand:
maneuver government officials
according to his will,
rescue his people,
give generously,
and shatter his enemies.
Now, the Bible does describe many other ways
Jehovah uses his hand.
So why not make
identifying some of these other ways
a future study project?
I’ll give you a little bit of homework.
But may all of us be determined
to use our physical and figurative hand
to always work in harmony
with Jehovah’s awe-inspiring hand.
Jehovah’s hand truly is awe-inspiring.
It has done and will do amazing things.
It will lead us “to tranquil waters”
even if our lives feel like a raging sea.
This month’s music video
is an uplifting reminder
of the peace we can have now
thanks to our Shepherd.
I open my eyes to the bluest skies
that I’ve ever seen before.
There’s nothing to fear,
and ev’ryone is here.
Come on out;
let’s go explore.
Let’s climb the highest mountaintop
and take it all in.
Every single gift we have
Jehovah’s given.
But for now,
we will wait for that day when
We will raise our heads and lift our voices
when this old world’s behind.
When Jehovah opens up his hands,
imagine what we’ll find
In the real life!
Hands in the dirt, building a whole new earth—
we’ve been given a new start.
Joy in the air, people laughing ev’rywhere—
and the sound fills up my heart.
No one will ever make you cry—
except the good kind.
This Paradise lights up your smile,
and it shines; it shines.
And we will raise our heads and lift our voices
when this old world’s behind.
When Jehovah opens up his hands,
imagine what we’ll find
In the real life!
But for now,
I’ll keep this picture safe and sound in my mind.
Soon will come
the day that we’ve been waiting for all our lives
When we will raise our heads and lift our voices
when this old world’s behind.
When Jehovah opens up his hands,
imagine what we’ll find!
We will raise our heads and lift our voices
when this old world’s behind.
When Jehovah opens up his hands,
imagine what we’ll find
In the real life!
We will find—we will find
The real life.
Soon will come the day
when every one of Jehovah’s sheep
will experience goodness all their days.
Until then, what must we do?
Stay in the Shepherd’s warm embrace.
In his arms, he protects us from dangers,
small and large.
In his pastures,
he feeds us nourishing spiritual food
so that we have the strength to make a stand.
With his hand,
he gives generously
so that we lack nothing good.
Before we conclude,
let’s visit Liechtenstein,
located between Switzerland and Austria.
It may be long in name,
but it’s small in size.
As the sixth smallest country in the world,
it has a population
of just over 39,000 people.
Despite being flanked
by snowy mountains on the east and south,
the cities in the valleys below
enjoy a comfortable climate
because of the warm air called foehn winds
flowing downward from the summits.
If you’re interested
in trekking the rugged terrain,
be sure to have a hearty meal beforehand.
You can try ribel,
a traditional dish made with cornmeal
and served with applesauce,
making it a filling and hearty snack.
The 95 publishers here
trek the country and dispense
nourishing spiritual food along the way,
and they also make a small journey
to Switzerland for their meetings.
The closest Kingdom Hall
is right along the border.
Although most of the population
is Roman Catholic,
our brothers still average
26 Bible studies.
But the path to preaching
has not always been smooth.
Our history of preaching is full
of uphill battles.
Starting in the 1920’s, the government
would try to arrest
anyone distributing our literature,
whether it was
from house to house
or even by letter.
At one point,
all the publishers preaching in the country
were arrested and detained on a bus.
What did they do?
They sang out to Jehovah!
Undeterred and with dictators rising
to power in the 1930’s,
they courageously used the pamphlet
Fascism or Freedom.
Though persecution was rampant,
they were unstoppable.
Like the warm winds
blowing in from the mountains,
the love of our brothers and sisters
can be felt everywhere.
It’s seen
in their regular Family Worship evenings,
before and after the meetings,
and in their singing to Jehovah.
And they wish to send that love to you,
the worldwide brotherhood.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.